---
layout: post
title: "Why I blog"
description: ""
category: misc
thumbnail: 
showtn: no
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

You are reading my blog at <http://truongtx.me>. This is a tech blog about what
I have done, how I get things done,... Many of friends have asked me why I spent
time blogging, whether it's a waste of time,... However, right from when I
started my first blog post, I realized that blogging is an important part of a
tech guy's life like me. Here are some key advantages of (tech) blogging.
Hopefully, after reading this post, you will begin with your blog and invite me
to visit ;)

<!-- more -->

# Summarize your knowledge/ Avoid repeatition

Writing blog about what you have done, what you have studied, researched is
probably one of the best way to summarize your knowledge. Your brain have to
think, remember about the what you are going to write. As a result, it helps you
to review and memorize what you have researched before. Your blog will be a
conclusion of your study. You can also write about the problem that you have
faced and how you solve it to avoid Googling the error every time you run into
that problem again.

# Prove yourself

For me, a good IT guy is a person who are willing to face the difficulty. When
what the softwares provide cannot satisfy you, never force yourself to fit them.
Instead, improve them or create your own better stuff, bend the computer to what
you want, let the computer serve you, make it your slave not your boss. As a
consequence, to become a good IT guy, you're always working to create your
better stuff, to overcome the barrier. However, when you have succeeded, a need
a place to show your ability and your blog can be one of the best choice. When
the other people read it on your blog, they refer to yourself, not anybody else.
This is especially helpful for you when you later apply for a job, you have the
strong evidence about what you have archived to show the employer.

# Practice English

Usually, the main language for tech people is English. Having your own tech blog
written in English helps you improve your writing skill as well as make friend
with foreign people when they are interested in your blog. Writing about the
field that you're interested in and you're working in can be more attracting and
easier to practice since you cannot have good idea about what you don't have any
experience on.

# Conclusion

In summary, having an English tech blog is a good practicing habit for an IT
guy. It's a good tool for you to summarize your knowledge, save your time
when you have to search for the solution of a problem you have encountered
before. It's also a good media to prove your ability as well as practice your
skill. Start your blog now and invite me to visit your blog ;)
